Add documentation to install the parsec backend on-premise (#5490)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/adminguide/hosting/index.rst

.. Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 2016-present Scille SAS

.. cspell:words conninfo

.. _doc_adminguide_hosting:

.. role:: bash(code)
  :language: bash

.. role:: yaml(code)
  :language: yaml

===================
Server installation
===================

This guide covers the installation procedure for the `parsec`_ metadata server (also called `parsec-server` or `parsec-backend`).

.. _parsec: https://parsec.cloud

Pre-requisite
*************

- `docker`_ installed with `docker-compose`_ plugin.
- A `parsec client`_.

> .. _docker: https://www.docker.com

Author: ```suggestion
.. _Docker: https://www.docker.com
```

.. _docker-compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/
.. _parsec client: https://parsec.cloud/get-parsec

Preamble
********

> The `parsec`_ metadata server depends on external components in order to work properly.

Author: ```suggestion
The `Parsec`_ metadata server depends on external components in order to work properly.
```

  Keep in mind that those instructions are provided for convenience and should not be used in production.

Parsec testing infra
********************

Generating the required TLS certificates
========================================

For this tutorial we will generate the needed TLS certificates with a custom Certificate Authority (CA) created for this purpose with the following script:

.. include:: setup-tls.sh
  :code: bash

The script will:

1. Generate the CA key & self-signed certificate (``custom-ca.{key,crt}``).
2. For each services in ``s3`` & ``parsec-backend`` do:

   a. Generate the service key & Certificate Signing Request (CSR) ``parsec-{service}.{key,csr}``.
   b. Generate the certificate using the CSR and the CA.

3. For the service ``parsec-backend`` it need additional configurations:

   a. Change the group of the key file to the gid ``1234`` (That the GID used by the container ``parsec-server``).
   b. Change the file mode to give read permission to the group ``1234``.

   .. note::

      We do this manipulation because we're limited by ``docker-compose``.

>       On other systems we would mount the file with the correct permission in the container

Author: It seems that you've understand correctly ;) in `docker-compose` I can't change the permission/ownership of a mounted file

.. warning::

  For production we would use certificates issued from a trusted CA

The env files
=============

> We split the configuration of the parsec server into multiple env files so it's simpler to understand how to configure each part.

Author: Here I wanted to convey that the env files are split for simplicity of the tutorial not because it's required

> We split the configuration of the parsec server into multiple env files so it's simpler to understand how to configure each part.

Author: Do you think the text still need to be changed ?

> We split the configuration of the parsec server into multiple env files so it's simpler to understand how to configure each part.

Reviewer: So, maybe just the first part 
```suggestion
For this guide, the Parsec server configuration is split into multiple `.env` files to easily understand how to configure each service.
```

Below you will find a basic script that generate the said token:

.. include:: gen-admin-token.sh
  :code: shell

The script will generate a random token (:bash:`openssl rand 63 | base64 --wrap=86`) and create the env file ``parsec-admin-token.env``

.. note::

  The step :bash:`TOKEN=$(openssl rand 63 | base64 --wrap=86)` could easily be replaced by a value generate by a password-generator for example.

  It don't need to be encoded in ``base64`` (we encode it in the script just to have printable characters).

Database configuration
----------------------

Create the file ``parsec-db.env`` with the following content:

.. include:: parsec-db.env
   :code: ini

Here, we set the database url and the min & max number of connections to it.

SMTP configuration
------------------

We will create the file ``parsec-email.env`` to configure the access to an SMTP server (``mailhog`` in this case).

We need to set the connection informations, the sender information, in which the default language the emails are sent:

.. include:: parsec-email.env
  :code: ini

S3 service configuration
------------------------

> Here we set the url for the parsec backend to access the S3 like service, we create the file ``parsec-blockstore.env`` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the file ``parsec-blockstore.env`` with the following content to set the URL for the S3-like service:
```

.. include:: parsec-blockstore.env
  :code: ini

.. note::

   We need to escape the ``:`` with a ``\`` when specifying the port of the service.

Parsec server configuration
---------------------------

> We also use the following env file (``parsec.env``) to configure the ``parsec-backend``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the file ``parsec.env`` with the following content to configure the ``parsec-backend`` service:
```

.. include:: parsec.env
  :code: ini

The docker-compose file
=======================

> We have a `docker compose`_ file (``parsec-server.docker.yaml``) that can be used to deploy a parsec backend for testing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following `docker compose`_ file (``parsec-server.docker.yaml``) to deploy the Parsec server for testing:
```

.. _docker compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/

.. include:: parsec-server.docker.yaml
  :code: yaml

It will setup 4 services:

+---------------------+----------------------------+
| Service name        | Description                |
+=====================+============================+

> | ``parsec-postgres`` | The database PostgreSQL    |
> +---------------------+----------------------------+
> | ``parsec-s3``       | The Object Storage service |
> +---------------------+----------------------------+
> | ``parsec-smtp``     | Provide a mock SMTP server |
> +---------------------+----------------------------+
> | ``parsec-backend``  | The parsec backend server  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ``parsec-postgres`` | The PostgreSQL database    |
+---------------------+----------------------------+
| ``parsec-s3``       | The Object Storage service |
+---------------------+----------------------------+
| ``parsec-smtp``     | A mock SMTP server         |
+---------------------+----------------------------+
| ``parsec-backend``  | The Parsec server          |
```

+---------------------+----------------------------+

> Starting the infra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting the services
```

==================

The docker containers can be started as follow:

.. code-block:: bash

  docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml up

> Initial infra setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initial configuration
```

===================

> On the first start of the infra, we need to do a one-time configuration on the database and s3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the first start, a one-time configuration is required for the database and s3 services.
```

Applying the database migration
-------------------------------

> (optional) You can verify that the database is accessible with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(optional) Check that the database is accessible with:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  set -a
  source parsec-db.env
  docker exec -t parsec-postgres psql 'postgresql://DB_USER:DB_PASS@0.0.0.0:5432/parsec' -c "\conninfo"

>   You are connected to database "parsec" as user "parsec" on host "0.0.0.0" at port "5432".

Reviewer: This is the expected output, isn't it? Maybe we can prefix it with "#" to show that it must not be executed as the previous lines (it seems obvious but who knows!)  
```suggestion
  # You are connected to database "parsec" as user "parsec" on host "0.0.0.0" at port "5432".
```
Or, we can prefix the first 3 lines with the "$"

Reviewer: BTW we should consider using https://sphinx-copybutton.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ 
what do you think? maybe create an issue for later?

Reviewer: > BTW we should consider using https://sphinx-copybutton.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
what do you think? maybe create an issue for later?

https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5550

Author: I've done something different to better integrate with #5550

To bootstrap the database we just need to apply the migrations with:

.. code-block:: bash

  docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml run parsec-backend migrate

Create the S3 Bucket
--------------------

Access the console at https://127.0.0.1:9090, you will need to use the credential specified in the ``docker-compose`` file at :yaml:`services.parsec-s3.environment.MINIO_ROOT_{USER,PASSWORD}`.

Go to https://127.0.0.1:9090/buckets/add-bucket to create a new bucket named ``parsec`` with the features ``object locking`` toggled on.

After that you will need to restart the ``parsec-backend`` (that likely exited because it wasn't able to access the S3 bucket):

.. code-block:: bash

  docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml restart parsec-backend

Test the SMTP configuration & server
------------------------------------

You can test ``mailhog`` with:

.. include:: ping-mailhog.sh
  :code: bash

> You can then check the email is present in the web interface at http://127.0.0.1:8025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then check if the email is present in the web interface at http://127.0.0.1:8025
```

> First step with the parsec infra
> ********************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start using Parsec server
*************************
```

Create the first organization
=============================

.. code-block:: bash

  set -a
  source parsec-admin-token.env
  export SSL_CAFILE=$PWD/custom-ca.crt
  parsec.cli core create_organization --addr parsec://127.0.0.1:6777 <orgname>

.. note::

   Change ``<orgname>`` to the organization's name that suit you.

> Save the link after ``Bootstrap organization url:`` you will need it to create the first user (owner) of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the link after ``Bootstrap organization url:`` you will need it to create the first user (administrator) of the organization.
```

Author: The first user of the owner of the organization :thinking:

Reviewer: What I meant in my suggestion is that when you bootstrap an organization, the first user will be the _administrator_, not the _owner_ (which is a concept related to the workspaces).

In fact, we can even avoid mentioning the user creation, just the bootstrap process:

```suggestion
Save the link after ``Bootstrap organization url:`` you will need it to start the bootstrap process for the new organization.
```

Add the first user to the organization
======================================

> First we need to start ``parsec`` with our custom CA:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, start ``parsec`` with the custom CA:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  export SSL_CAFILE=$PWD/custom-ca.crt
  parsec

> After that goto ``Menu -> Join an organization`` (or ``CTRL+O``) and paste the link from before (should already be filled in the text field).
> After that you just need to follow the instructions to create the first user of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that go to ``Menu``/``Join an organization`` (or ``CTRL+O``) and paste the link from before (should already be filled in the text field). Follow the instructions to create the first user of the organization.
```
